      Status: DRAFT: Work in Progress

**Definition:** Active information or a warning, about a person or their situation, which may affect how their support is delivered.

## **Introduction**

This profile sets minimum expectations for the Social Care Flag resource.

### **Coverage and references**

- Data Providers MUST offer Social Care Flag FHIR resources to represent flags against its own service users.
- When referencing a Flag then the "reference" (URL of FHIR Resource) and "display" (The Flag type) MUST be populated.

### **Mandatory fields**
The following fields are mandatory:
- **status** only use ‘active’ – we are only interested in flags which are currently active against a person. Historical flag information should only be available for auditing purposes. 

- **category** this provides a level of categorisation, i.e. Risk to others, Risk to self, safeguarding concern and other. This should always be known and is vital for meaningful display purposes. Here We have defined a custom code list for the most common categories of flags established. However, it allows for the possibility of extending the list, should other categories emerge.

- **code** code is used to record the type of flag assigned to a person. code.text SHOULD be populated with the local name of the flag, this is not a repeat of the code.display. This field MUST be populated to further describe the flag when ‘Other’ is selected as the type. 

- **subject.patient** The person to which the flag is assigned.

### **Must Support fields**
In addition, the following fields are "Must Support" - i.e. they must be populated if relevant and known:

- **period.start** period.start should be populated with the date that the flag was placed against the person.

### **Optional fields**
Other fields are optional and may be populated if known - on the understanding that not all data consumers will necessarily make use of them. Optional fields to note include:

- **identifier:localIdentfier** - As with most other resources, there is the option to include a local identifier which may help to identify the flag record at a local level.

- **period.end** only active flags should be shared. Historical flags should only be accessed for auditing purposes.

- **author** the author of the flag may optionally be supplied. It is not envisaged that this will be used by consuming systems. 

### **Discouraged or Removed fields**
The following field(s) are either not relevant to social care or no specific use case for them has been identified. 
     
- **encounter** - removed - it is not likely that a flag will be linked to a specific encounter within the social care setting and to avoid any confusion, this field is removed.

- **code(SNOMEDCT)** - This slice created by Care Connect has been removed to avoid confusion with the list of flag types generated by the Social Care Data Standards working group.